FAQ Tweaks, Including Root Chain FAQ + Terminology (#661)
cert-manager/website: content/en/docs/faq/_index.md

This is a feature in cert-manager starting in `v0.16` using the kubectl plugin. More information can be found on [the renew command's page](../usage/kubectl-plugin/#renew)

### Why isn't my root certificate in my issued Secret's `tls.crt`?

Occasionally, people work with systems which have made a flawed choice regarding TLS chains. The [TLS spec](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5246#section-7.4.2)
has the following section for the "Server Certificate" section of the TLS handshake:

> This is a sequence (chain) of certificates.  The sender's
> certificate MUST come first in the list.  Each following
> certificate MUST directly certify the one preceding it.  Because
> certificate validation requires that root keys be distributed
> independently, the self-signed certificate that specifies the root
> certificate authority MAY be omitted from the chain, under the
> assumption that the remote end must already possess it in order to
> validate it in any case.

> In a standard, secure and correctly configured TLS environment, adding a root certificate to the chain is almost entirely _pure waste_.

Author: this reads better for sure, thanks. I've added a "almost always" before "unnecessary" because I can come up with very convoluted scenarios where it might not be entirely wasteful, such as:

Having the root in the chain theoretically allows a validator to more quickly check if the root appears in their trust store... but only really if they were intentionally trying to create pathologically evil trust stores with huge numbers of duplicated certificates :joy:

There are two ways that a certificate can be trusted:

- explicitly, by including it in a trust store.
- through a signature, by following the certificate's chain back up to an explicitly trusted certificate.

Crucially, root certificates are by definition self-signed and they cannot be validated through a signature.

As such, if we have a client trying to validate the certificate chain sent by the server, the client must already have the

> root before the connection is started. If the client already has the root, there was no point in it being sent by the server!

Reviewer: Should we also say something about hypothetical client mounting tls.crt as a client-certificate? Can we link to a corresponding section of the spec that says whether the client MAY / SHOULD / MUST / or MUST NOT send the full chain to the server?

Author: The [spec](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5246#section-7.4.6) points at the same justification for server certificates. I'll add a line explaining this.

### How can I see all the historic events related to a certificate object?

cert-manager publishes all events to the Kubernetes events mechanism, you can get the events for your specific resources using `kubectl describe <resource> <name>`.

Due to the nature of the Kubernetes event mechanism these will be purged after a while. If you're using a dedicated logging system it might be able or is already also storing Kubernetes events.

### What happens if a renewal doesn't happen? Will it be tried again after some time?

> cert-manager makes use of exponential back off to retry non-fatal failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cert-manager will retry the renewal if it encounters temporary failures and it uses an exponential backoff algorithm to calculate the delay between each retry.
```

> A non-fatal failure is one that doesn't mark the `CertificateRequest` as failed. If the `CertificateRequest` is marked as failed, issuance will be re-tried in 1 hour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A temporary failure is one that doesn't mark the `CertificateRequest` as failed. If the `CertificateRequest` is marked as failed, issuance will be re-tried in 1 hour.
```

Fatal just sounds a bit too dramatic in my opinion.
